It's the beginning,
not the closure.
The energy is so powerful.
Everything I instinctively felt
and every single person knows
to bring the collective
consciousness together,
it's not either or, it's and.
MICHAEL J. FOX
(VOICEOVER): We're
trained to think that
everything stops then,
but life doesn't stop
then, life keeps going.
EDIE FALCO (VOICEOVER):
Doctor becomes God.
They have all the information,
I have none of it--
LINSEY CLENNELL (VOICEOVER):
--financial and political
interests of their--
(VOICEOVER): --have insight
into what it is to be human--
TONY ROBBINS (VOICEOVER):
--when you are certain,
you are unified.
There's no greater
suffering than no hope.
DR. JAMES GORDON
(VOICEOVER): The true healer
is somebody who's got an open
mind to all possibilities.
[THEME MUSIC]
DONNA KARAN: These
ancient traditions
are healing traditions.
And we are not in
respect of that.
You know, we're
not only machines.
Artistry, you know,
the hand, the touch,
the feel, healing, you
know, it's touching somebody
is very old.
We need to touch
people, people need
to be cared for as a
whole, we're one person.
That's what people
want, connection.
And I think we've lost it.
So when you inclusively
put everybody together,
we are going to
make a difference.
You know, all we care
about is each other.
It's so simple.
It's human-- human dignity.
I really have faith.
When you see a problem
there is a solution.
I think that's why
there are problems.
It's-- it's sort of simple.
DR. MARK HYMAN: I think
there's this true here that
has to be spoken,
which is that we learn
how to detach as physicians.
We're trained to disconnect,
and the secret of healing
is falling in love
with the patient.
It's allowing yourself to enter
into that sacred relationship.
And that's where
the healing begins,
you know, and I see this
day after day in my office.
I call myself a resort doctor,
the doctor of last resort.
People come to me after they've
seen 80 physicians sometimes,
and all they want is for
somebody to listen to them,
to validate them,
to hear their story,
and we're stories, not symptoms.
And those stories
need to be heard,
they need to be validated,
they need to be understood,
and that begins the
healing process,
that begins the engagement
in that healing relationship.
And that's really what is
missing on a large scale
in our health care system.
DR. JAMES GORDON: There's
a fundamental problem
in the education of
physicians, an imbalance,
which is really unbalanced.
That is, all the education
is basically mastering data
and in all traditional
systems of healing,
if you were going to
become the official healer
of your community, you had
to balance the accumulation
of knowledge with some process
that brought about wisdom
and modesty and understanding.
DR. WOODSON MERRELL:
Part of the problem
with physician
practice, though, is
they're not mentored to
value fundamental lifestyle,
which is the core of health.
If unless you're taught to
value it within yourself
and to value it as
relevant to patients,
you're not going to practice it.
So when doctors get
out into practice
they're actually not--
not pursuing this.
And they don't think it's
important for the patient.
So I think that the training
and what's done in mentoring
and medical schools
needs to change.
The problem is that most of
them haven't been trained
and don't have the
tools, and we need
to help them to-- to get
back what most all-- most
every physician went
into medicine really
not for the money, they went
into it really out of altruism,
like nurses do.
And along the way
it gets corrupted.
And she said,
Christie don't stop.
We need what you do.
She said 15 years ago
I had breast cancer,
and I was getting ready to
be rolled in on the gurney
into the OR, and my
doctor took me by the hand
and he held my
hand to his heart,
and he looked me square in
the eye, two inches away
from my eyes, and he
said, Ann I want you
to know I'm here only for you.
We're doing this together.
In five seconds, he
established community with her,
he eased her mind, he empowered
her, he elevated her spirit,
he did integrative
medicine in five seconds.
My passion is the heart.
And I spent most
of my time working
on people's hearts
literally, but not as much
as I desire to figuratively.
And the heart, which is our
most poetic of all organs,
you know, we have bleeding
hearts and cold hearts
and stone hearts, but it is the
aspect of the patient I think
we deal with least effectively.
And I'm coming to
the realization
that what we have
to do is create
a smart patient movement.
I think the way
to reform medicine
is to have a group
of smart patients,
maybe it's 10% of the
population, their caregivers,
overwhelmingly,
which means they're
women that take care of
their sons, their husbands,
their fathers.
They're the ones that are
going to drive this change.
And for it to
happen effectively,
we have to empower them.
We need to give them
the tool kits they need,
and then we have to make
medicine responsive to it.
And I'm convinced that we can
actually make that happen.
I would plead with all
involved in this process
that we look for logistically
achievable solutions.
But by taking them
into Beth Israel
or any other major medical
center and getting them to work
is difficult because we
often don't translate
the information effectively.
The training of
doctors, I think,
is critical in the system.
But I also think it's
critical to empower patients
to remember they have choice.
And one of the ways you
change a system is remember,
a system is made up of people
and it's made up of choices,
and the moment you focus
on you're out of control,
you feel it, you know, the
moment you focus on fear
is not an option, your--
your body and your emotion
and the meaning changes,
and your actions
are going to change.
When someone has
a belief, a belief
is a feeling of certainty about
what something means to you.
And when you are
certain, you are unified.
And what happens
very often is people
walk in with a certain amount
of certainly they've developed
and the doctor doesn't
realize he takes it away.
And very often, that's designed
to lower the expectations
so people don't
suffer more or hurt,
but there's no greater
suffering than no hope.
I just want to touch
on this idea of healing.
And-- and you guys are talking
from a doctor's point of view,
but also from the
patient's point of view.
It reminds me of-- of a
thing I say to my children
all the time, and now-- now
it's become rote with my kids.
I'll say, a lady had
a baby in a tree,
and when I say a lady had a baby
tree that means don't tell me
your problem, show me that--
that you're willing to do what
it takes to solve that problem.
And it's based on the fact
they had this flooding
in Mozambique, and this woman
who was pregnant climbed a tree
and spent four days in
the top of the tree,
and then had her baby
on the top of the tree.
That to me, is a symbol
of-- as a patient,
you have an obligation
to climb that tree.
And-- and to not just
wait at the bottom
and wait for the apple to fall
down, hit you on the head,
and you eat it and be healthy.
The most important
thing in all of this
really isn't doctors,
nurses, kinds of doctors,
it's really yourself.
And somewhere within this
combination of people and need
for people's support
is after you've
had a traumatic experience,
you find within yourself
to integrate with other
things and to have more
vision and power and strength.
You find that within yourself.
And then you can put yourself
out there and use knowing all
of these different components.
Which ones are the ones for you?
And that is a
responsibility of yourself,
to take power over the
doctors, the nurses,
and find that it's all
within your choice.
Now I spent the next few weeks
in traction in the children's
ward in the hospital,
and for quite awhile
I couldn't move or talk and
I was just sort of floating.
Then one day one of the
doctors came to see me,
and he told me that I wouldn't
be able to walk again.
And I remember thinking,
this guy is crazy.
I mean, is he even a doctor?
Who knows?
Although I couldn't say
that or anything else
since I couldn't
talk, but I was sure
he had no idea
what he was saying.
And of course, I
was going to walk,
and I just had to
concentrate, just keep
trying to make
contact with my feet,
just convince them,
will them to move.
One of the ways I embrace the
chaos of my particular illness
was really to define a style
for how I was going to be sick.
And I looked at
my illness the way
I was going to run my
business, and I created a team.
And that took a lot
of effort on my part
to get my neurologist,
my oncologist,
and I found a psychologist
who studies the psychology
of illness in women.
And I anointed her
the team captain.
So there really
had a point where
when I was on
particular medicines,
I had the entire group
figure out how the medicines
were going to interact.
And I found that to be
really a great way to do it.
And a lot of the
metaphors are, you're
going to fight your illness,
but I'm a lover not a fighter.
I didn't want to image oh,
a big battle in my head.
I mean, I just wanted,
you know, my unhappy cells
to take the happy cells out
for a pint and talk it over,
you know.
I didn't want all these
warlike metaphors.
And I communicated
that to my doctors
and I've been so blessed
for this journey.
KRIS CARR: Doctors can
often make you feel silly
or like a Google civilian when
you come in with these ideas
that I might want to try this
or what if this would help,
what do you think,
and I know first hand
that finding that right
oncologist who will actually
listen to you and take
into account your needs
and your desires and
your spiritual beliefs
and your just overall
attitude and thirst
is the most important
thing that you can do.
Because unless you're going
to walk completely away
from Western medicine, you
have to find somebody who
can be a part of your
team and also say
there are other team members
that we're going to work with.
The moment I found
out that I had cancer I
really went to a place of calm.
I think I became very
at peace with my illness
because I never
focused on the cancer,
what I focused on was why is--
like why is this happening?
What's my contribution?
I was very, very aware
of the spiritual side,
and very aware of my power.
It's that the total disbelief
that someone has just
said those words to you,
that you have cancer.
It's got to change something
in one's cells, you know.
It is such a profound
thing to be told.
The idea that a doctor can say
certain words to me that can so
profoundly shock me
was sort of a set
up for what I was about to
go through because, you know,
the doctor becomes God because
they have all the information,
I have none of it.
I'm in grave danger and they
can fix it, theoretically.
Well, I think everybody
in a hospital situation
or in a situation of
illness, even if they're not
in a hospital need someone to
help them navigate the system.
.
I work in a hospital, so you
kind of are less intimidated
if you work in that environment,
but for someone who doesn't,
it's very intimidating.
Or how do you sort through all
of these different resources?
Who do I talk to?
You can hear many
different people
and many different inputs.
So I think having a
navigator or a guide,
whatever one wants to call it,
to help people through just
sorting out the information,
sorting out the system,
sorting out the red
tape, sorting out how
do I put a team together,
because hospitals
aren't all there yet.
It's the patients who are
doing the integrating.
I might see my Western
doctor and my acupuncturist
and my herbalist, and who's
putting that together?
Who's having them
talk to each other
so that the doctor knows that
the herbalist isn't poisoning
me and the herbalist
can say well,
the doctor, maybe you could
do some blood tests to see
if my herbs are doing any good.
We need that dialogue.
We are part of a post-colonial
mentality in our-- or sometimes
I say not quite post-colonial--
still a little bit
colonial in attitude.
And we think we are the high
civilization of the universe.
We have machinery so that
proves that we are more--
and we can destroy more
than anybody ever could,
so that proves that we are
superior, which is incorrect.
And we do not
necessarily understand
the environment well.
We are wrecking the
planet, we do not
understand the human
body and mind and spirit
that well, because we are we
have very powerful things that
have powerful effects,
but often side effects,
and we have like
50% hospital beds
are caused by misdiagnosis and
misimplification of medicine.
And-- and our health system
is in a bit of shambles
at this point, although
there are wonderful things
that they do do.
And there's not that to
throw the whole baby out
with the bath water,
but there's really
a revolution that is required.
And to form the key
revolution, in my view,
is an attitudinal one
where the arrogance
of the Western mechanistic
industrial sort of intellect
supported in the medical schools
and universities and things
that we know best
and everybody else
is a native, an unwashed
native, and so on.
This attitude has
to change, and we
have to realize that we need
help to reconnect to nature
in a different way,
reconnect to our patients,
reconnect to ourselves
in a different way.
And when we do that, then the
tools that we have invented
could be used
really brilliantly,
and so but that's
the revolution,
the creating of a-- of a
world medicine, if you will.
DR. BHASWATI BHATTACHARYA: So
some years ago I found myself
in Tibet, living
there for many months
and working with a Tibetan
doctor called [INAUDIBLE].
And I started presuming that
the reason that they were using
these little round pills
and not the fresh white ones
was because they
didn't have access,
and they didn't
have money to get
the real medicine, the good
medicine that we in the West
had.
And so I asked
[INAUDIBLE], why is it
that they don't use the
medicines from America,
the Western medicines?
And he said to me, we
have to be patient.
Look at modern medicine.
How old is it?
80 years?
60 years?
It's a young medicine.
Our medicine, Tibetan medicine,
which is Chinese medicine,
Ayurvedic medicine,
and unani, which
is Greek Persian
medicine combined,
we are thousands of years
doing what we're doing.
We have so much
experience, we have
to be patient with the child.
Modern medicine believes that
they are right, as children do.
Modern medicine believes
that they have all
the answers, as children do.
And we have to be
patient with them.
A healer is there for
the process of healing,
and is not wedded to his or
her particular methodology.
So a healer is open to
using whatever works.
The true healer
is somebody who's
got an open mind to
all possibilities,
because he or she is there,
whether as a researcher
or a clinician in the
service of the people
he or she is working with,
not in the surface of the ego,
not in the service of
greed, not in the service
of received ideas.
If you can reach a level
of trust in whatever path
you've taken, that is going
to lead you to a light,
to openness, to expansion,
to breaking down
of all boundaries, to more
love, more compassion, more
possibilities, that will
activate with trust,
with not just belief, but really
a giving trust and a confidence
that comes along with
that, that you're really
on to something that works.
You're back home in the
field of all possibilities
where everything is
connected to everything else,
where you're totally
comfortable with uncertainty,
because you want to live in the
unknown, the known is the past,
it's dead, it's gone.
The unknown is
where the action is.
So you want to live in
the unknown, where there's
spontaneity, where
there's creativity,
and where you realize that
you can go create with God.
So try it every
day, 10-15 minutes,
ask yourself who am
I, what do I want,
go into the discontinuity,
get in touch with the soul,
and be totally spontaneous.
Because in spontaneity is
the movement of the unknown.
RICHARD FREEMAN: I
think this is probably
the point of a challenge
for all of us is to find
in our relationships
with our own body
and with our fellow humans,
those points where it appear
to be great obstacles,
which appear to be as
frightening as death itself,
and how to actually just
be there in that calm space.
And in that calm space, the
connection or the resolution
is already there.
What the physician is
really giving the patient
is a kind of self
knowledge, so they're
turning into their own doctor.
And so if we turn the
whole argument over,
it's how can we
educate patients?
Because if you look around at
all the people who are healing
or have been healed, they
know a tremendous amount
about themselves and
about the specific disease
that they've are dealing
with or have overcome.
Before I compared this to
the idea of the guru, which
is perhaps an archaic model
in which there's an authority
and then there are
simply the patients
are like little children
taking every-- taking the word
of the authority literally.
But I think a new model
is being born where--
and this I think the West
has to give to the east,
is that it's no longer
the age of the guru,
it's the age of
this interaction,
which turns out to
be an equal-- equal
partnership on both sides.
I think there's a real
place for integration
between Western
medicine and yoga.
Western medicine
has given us so much
in terms of our ability
to combat disease
and our ability to take
care of traumatic injury
and all kinds of
things, but it certainly
doesn't have all the answers.
It has not been addressed
preventative situations
or long term chronic
conditions really effectively.
It has provided drugs
that sometimes absolutely
are the best answer, but
it hasn't provided all
the answers that one can have.
I think Western
medicine's changing.
And I think Western
medicine needs to change.
And I think the way it's opening
up to alternative therapy,
and which includes yoga, is
a fairly slow process because
of the financial and
political interest
that there are in
maintaining the status quo.
The thing that we
all want to avoid
is this kind of
skism that's coming
and a debate and
conflict that's happening
between the alternative and
conventional medicine, which
is funded by the
pharmaceutical companies.
And you can see
within the media,
and certainly within
the alternative media
at the moment, this kind
of conflict coming up.
We have an issue that
the media in this country
is not communicating, so that--
so that you're not even aware
of the problem as a citizen.
And not being aware
of the problem,
you can't-- it's harder for
you to make a difference,
and that's another
reason that the Urban
Zen initiative is so exciting.
Because then there will be
much more of an opportunity
for the average person to
hear the problem and say,
I want to see if I
can make a difference.
There's a couple
things that are
so important in the
hospital situation
that yoga can begin to help.
One is just contact, we need
to get the people in contact
with their body.
A lot of times people in
the hospital are thinking,
oh I need to, you know,
get away from my body.
I need to get rid of the pain.
I need to get rid of
everything about what
my body's telling me right now.
What yoga's going
to do, it's going
to have us meditate in
the body, it's going
to have an in body experience.
And we actually know
without a question
that yoga can help
in the hospitals.
We've seen it time
and time again.
Just by teaching patients
simple breathing techniques,
simple relaxation
techniques, we can
allow their mental state
to be less agitated, less
anxious, less confused, right?
And physically we can relieve
them of a lot of symptoms.
These are the important
things: meditation, relaxation
and restorative yoga postures.
It also empowers the patient
to take some responsibility
for their own healing process,
which is incredibly liberating,
if you're not
waiting for a doctor
to come in and give you a pill
or tell you what's going on.
And so when, of course, people
are in an acute situation,
it becomes even more important
to teach a person how to focus,
to release, to relax, to
actually let the body do it's
innate job of healing itself.
These shifts can happen.
I think it's the 11th hour,
but it's not 11:50 yet.
And I believe that
the deeper you go,
you know, time itself-- Einstein
said that time is an illusion
of consciousness, as is space.
The shallower you're thinking,
the more quickly time moves.
The deeper you're
thinking, the more
you can expand time and through
prayer, through meditation,
through spiritual
practice, through deeper
reflection and mindfulness,
deeper conversation.
And that's really the
buzz of this moment,
and that's what we're
all moving into.
And as we deepen
this way, then we
can go very high and in time.
But we must make
of ourselves right
now precision instruments.
It's time.
We can do this, but I think
we need to really support
each other in doing it now.
You know, I can't say that
anything has gone wrong
with humanity or civilization.
I think everything's going
just the way it was planned,
it's just we don't
know the plan.
We don't know how it's
going to turn out.
I think that from my own
part, what I try to do
is spend the predominant
amount of time
in my life being
kind to others rather
than taking advantage of them.
I try to spend a lot of my time
serving the needs of others
rather than worrying
about when I get mine.
The reason I do that
is not because I feel
that the world is too
selfish or the world is--
is corrupted somehow,
but I feel that you're
either part of the problem or
you're part of the solution.
Both have to exist, the problem
and solution simultaneously.
But some people will
carry the solution
and some people will
carry the problem.
I choose to carry the solution.
DONNA KARAN: I have
never been so inspired.
Everybody wants to do something.
If I have any prayer
it's that every one of us
touches every one of us,
be conscious, be involved,
and just show your love.
Love cures all.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
ROBERT CHODO CAMPBELL
(VOICEOVER): No separation
between life and death.
Each moment a return to home.
ROSE: My name is
Rose [INAUDIBLE],
and I have terminal cancer.
Each in breath life.
ROSE: I've just been, of
course, trying to cope with it
and it's held a lot
of surprises for me.
You know, just kind
of amazing surprises.
I never expected it to be
kind of such a joyous--
in a certain way-- experience
in one of the times
that I'm supposed to
be strictly miserable.
I would say this
is the most loving
I have ever been in my life.
I'm 57.
You know, that's
pretty remarkable.
We are all going to die.
It's not-- you
don't get out of it.
Our culture, we don't
like to face death.
We don't talk about it.
It's like people act
like no one ever died
before and yet everyone dies.
It's what we're
here for practically
in a weird twisted way.
That's why I have to prepare.
Chodo going to
help me to prepare
for when I'm not feeling so good
because it's not so easy then.
In my practice
in Buddhism, the--
the basic teaching is that
you come into the world,
and guess what.
You're going out.
You know, there's no escape.
So it's not so much a question
of trying to get someone
to the place of where
they're accepting death,
but to the place of being out
of suffering around the death.
I am-- I'm just trying
to be happy every day.
It's not so much loss,
I feel like, you know,
I feel like I can move
on to the next thing,
you know, and I'm curious to.
It's quite phenomenal to
see how people-- how brave
they are, how resourceful they
are, how brave and resourceful
we all are.
Death is the most egalitarian
thing I know about in my life.
It's like a party that
everyone gets invited to,
doesn't matter how cute you
are, doesn't matter, you know,
how educated you are, or what
kind of family you come from,
or what you have to wear, we're
all invited to this party.
So we best prepare for it.
We best prepare for
it, moment by moment.
And this doesn't mean that
we have to walk around being
terrified of dying, no.
Look death straight in the face
and know it's going to happen,
and then live your life.
When we release ourself
from the fear of death,
because most people
don't-- they're not
really afraid of death,
they're afraid of living,
living full out.
So once you-- you break
that fear of death and fear
of living, you become in
tune with such a power that
is ready to become
conscious of itself
through you if
you let it happen.
ROSE: My head is clear.
I want to live in this
apartment until June when I
move to the hospice residence.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
ROSE: I cried
actually more moving
than I did when I
heard I had cancer.
And it was a quick move,
I had to move from one day
to the next, it was fast.
I really never cried that much.
Now, recently we're
not sure exactly why,
but my feet are swollen.
That could be the same reason
my doctor thinks the same reason
my stomach is swollen.
So this is what's
been happening.
It's more about your function
and how you're functioning,
how is-- you know.
I just wanted to be in the now.
You know, you got to have hope.
I remember the first thing--
one of the first things I said
to Rose was, so Rose, how does
it feel like to be not-- what
does it feel like to be dying?
She's like, bring it on.
ROSE: I want to
see the snowfall.
I want to see October.
I wanted to have a
winter coat in my closet
to prove to myself that
maybe I-- to be optimistic.
And then hopefully, I'll be
able to see winter maybe,
it's-- we don't know how fast
this is going to progress.
I was just trying to live day
by day, but I'm not cured.
And then I'm going to die.
I can't stress this enough,
we are all on borrowed time.
We can't all be cured, because
sometimes it's our time,
but we can all be healed.
ROSE'S MOM (ON PHONE): Hi
Rosie, it's your mama calling
to see how you're doing.
I'll call later.
Bye, bye.
ROSE: My mother is 83 years old.
When she calls,
she's not-- you know,
she puts on her best face.
And we both try hard.
You know what, I
think at this point,
I'm just ready to say
whatever happens happens.
[MUSICI PLAYING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
DONNA KARAN: You know,
I-- I have this dream,
I've had this dream
for so many years
of what urban Zen
would feel like,
to find the calm in the chaos.
That's what urban
Zen means to me.
In the chaos of disease,
where is the calm in it?
You know, how do we calm
ourselves to get to the point
that we can deal
with the disease?
That for me is why
we're all here today.
When Steve got ill, we
went and had a relationship
at Sloan Kettering.
And he had lung cancer.
But I realized this
journey was so-- everything
was specialized.
And being naive to the journey
realizing what he needed
to help his journey,
that it wasn't only
what the hospital
offered, but there
were so many other things.
Thank God, I was connected
on another level,
that being yoga and acupuncture
and Eastern medicine.
And where I found is that
the hospital it wasn't one.
It was either or, it
was-- it wasn't together.
So I had to navigate
the path for him.
So I always felt there
needed to be that one
person that each
patient is assigned
for to go through the journey.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
STEVE (VIDEO
PLAYBACK): So goodbye,
it's been lovely seeing you.
See you soon.
Hasta luego and whatever.
DONNA KARAN: So on Steven's
journey it was one thing,
and then on Lynn's the
journey got very complicated.
First, it was breasts,
then it was brain,
and two different specialists.
How do we hold it together?
We're naive.
You have to-- for me, I had
to recognize my own power
to choose, and choice is a big
thing in the entire universe
that you get to
choose what you do.
No one chooses really for
you, you get to be happy,
you get to be sad, you
get to have be in pain
and suffer from that,
or you were in pain
and you just recognize you're
in pain and you live with pain.
All these are choices
that you make yourself,
and I think the same is true
of integrating east and west.
If that's really
what you need, it
should totally be available in
the hospital there to have it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I survived and I don't really
like to call it survived,
because you just--
especially with brain cancer,
you really never know
if you're a survivor
or you're not a survivor.
But today, because I look at
every day, I am a survivor.
And I sit here with
you as a miracle.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
You put your hope and your--
your power into coming out
the other side,
because when you come
out the other side it's--
it's just-- you're born again.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
DONNA KARAN: We're here to
celebrate you, and hopefully
celebrate all those people's and
lives you've already touched,
and will continue to touch.
--amazing to me to
touch more than myself
is just already incredible.
What an amazing
miracle, that you've
created for me that happened.
Thank you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
It's funny, I have not
talked about this really,
and certainly not
in public at all,
and it's still-- it's
been almost four years,
and it's still, you know,
it comes back in a second,
to sit in a doctor's office
and have them say those words
to you, you have cancer.
From that moment on,
nothing is the same.
I was in a-- having a mammogram
in an office in Chinatown
and they were all Chinese,
and my doctor's half Chinese
because they're
like half and half,
but obviously was
quite difficult,
because there were
400 of them in there,
they're all screaming,
and my car wasn't working,
and nobody could
understand my accent,
and I was that close to going.
I remember in that moment
thinking if I could do anything
to just back time up to
before I heard those words,
you know what I mean, maybe
I would change my mind not
get this biopsy, just
go back to a time
that-- where there
was-- where I was
just not overwhelmed with fear.
I feel blessed.
I feel blessed that my life,
I get to sit and hear and take
in and be changed
by and be disturbed
by and weep over and laugh
over other people's suffering.
That's the great gift.
The painful life is a
life where you're alone,
and you don't inhale people
and you don't take in people
and you don't see people and you
become progressively isolated
and shut down and deadened
and deadened and deadened
until you have no reason
to be here anymore.
In the end when it all
happened, and I went up
to the [INAUDIBLE]
and everything,
there just never seem to be
somebody there to like sit down
and talk.
Everybody was so like--
it was like rehearsed.
Everybody had like-- you do
this over here and you do that.
And I see the sort of the
very competent doctor come in
and the nurses and, you
know, but they don't know--
unless they sit themselves on
a table for their four month
checkup after they've
had cancer and you
don't know if they're going
to find more, until they've
gone through it themselves, they
don't know the level of panic.
I don't know what
it's like trying to --
how do you teach somebody
bedside manner, you know.
How do you teach that?
I mean, my doctor's
were all great,
but they were like coal
miners, you know, they're
like [INAUDIBLE] in here.
And I'd be like, you
know, get your tits out,
and it'd be like,
oh I'm so Scottish
and they'd be like well
there's people everywhere,
and I would be like.
And you mind if we
bring in some students
and it would be like ten
students, and I'm like ah,
it's a nightmare.
It was really a nightmare.
Most people don't want you
to come in and fix them.
Most people don't
want-- and I think
this is true medically as well.
Most people want you to
hear them and care for them,
so that they can find the where
with all in their own systems
to become immune, to build
up their immunity, to create
their strengths, to
create their know how,
to create their
vision of the world,
and that comes from another
person witnessing you, honoring
you, bearing witness
to your pain,
sitting with your struggle,
that's what healing is.
I'm a sentient human
going through a very
difficult experience.
I'm not just this walking
cancer person, you know.
I'm a-- I'm a
ridiculously sensitive
human who's terrified.
There's a definitely coldness
to the institution of medicine,
which I think so many
of us have experienced
and want to have changed.
I mean, I think the place
itself needs to change,
and we've talked
about this and just
the space itself
like how it can feel
like a more comfortable place.
You go to the hospital
and they're just
trying to kill you, with
not only the nutrition
but your lack of sleep.
You get-- if you want to
be in the hospital that
means that you really
want to get sicker.
Both my parents had
just had hospitalizations
in the last year-- I had like
a grilled cheese sandwich
and a piece of
white bread thinking
what-- are you kidding
me, you just had a heart
attack for Christ's sake.
You could be talking more
about nutrition and diet and all
these things that they say,
they say well you know,
you know, eat well.
And you know, you
don't have the time.
I think that my father could
have had a better experience,
a much better
experience, and I wish
I could have facilitated that.
And I feel like I can help now
to facilitate that having gone
through his experience, but also
with the people that I-- that I
know and the-- the access that
we have as a group, that idea
of being part of this community,
which I think this now,
this is a movement.
You know, I'm-- I'm so grateful
to be where I am and to be
healthy and when there
are people who you know,
haven't been as lucky.
But I think there are
ways to, you know,
I have no doubt there
ways to heal more people
and to heal the same people
maybe more effectively.
I've talked to a
lot of people that
are told that they
had six months
and they're still
alive 20 years later.
So it's nothing-- there's
no-- it's all about in here,
it's all about the
inner-- the inside of you.
It's all about
the inside of you,
because I think you can
actually keep yourself alive.
I do, I think you can fight it.
DONNA KARAN: The lessons that
I've learned from my husband,
the lessons that I hope
to give to my children
or my grandchildren, these
are the most important
people in the world to me.
And to think that I had an
idea, and I didn't do everything
I could have possibly
done to make a difference,
I couldn't get up every morning.
It's just who I am.
[MUSIC PLAYING]